---
layout: post
---

## Quick Thoughts on the Capitol Hill Protests

Quick thoughts: Watching the MAGA-lunatics storm Capitol Hill, and just thinking "if these people weren't white, they'd be shot already" is falling woefully short of understanding just what kind of madness took place today -- and it will fail to prevent something like this from happening again.  

The. System. Has. Failed.  

But this failure is not due to just one man, or a single political party. No, what we are seeing is a rotting carcass, a zombie, a curse, and a total and utter collapse which began decades ago -- well before many of us were even born.
And if you don't understand this, then you are indirectly part of the problem.  

The social contract for the vast majority of Americans is dead. Most Americans will never be, and have never been, able to even attempt fulfilling the American dream. Unless your parents and your grandparents were privileged enough to inherit or build wealth, you are one hospitalisation away from financial ruin. Your parents are most likely divorced, and, perhaps, one of them is incarcerated. If you're lucky to get into a good school, you will be paying your tuition fees for the majority of your working life. If you even have a remote dream of doing something that isn't management consulting, investment banking, or software engineering, your employment contract is most likely part-time/casual with absolutely no superannuation or entitlements. We are witnessing the greatest transfer of wealth from poor to rich in modern history, as the entire non-formal sector of the workforce is "uberised". Even if you're lucky to do a suit and tie equipped job, you are nothing but a pawn to your corporate overloads.  

Many do not trust the government or the news -- and why, or, more importantly, how should they? Everything is hypersensualised -- Fox, MSNBC, CNN, OAN, InfoWars, or whatever. They don't know anything other than "the others" are the devil. They were told that Libya was a threat. They are told Russia is a threat. They were told Syria was a threat. They were told Iraq was a threat -- twice. They are told Iran is a threat. They were told Yemen was a threat. They were told Bin Laden was killed, but yet nothing changed. They were told that Wall Street was too big to fail. They were told the jobs were coming back. They were told that suspects "resisted arrest" and that they had to shoot. They were told masks don't work, but they do, but maybe they don't.  

They were told that the country has no money to help them, as politicians on both sides green lighted trillions to corporations and the military. They watched, as the billionaires get even richer during a global pandemic, and as one man in LA purchased a house for $165 million dollars  -- all the while paying no corporate income tax. This all happened as evictions and unemployment spiked across the country.  

Schools are so drastically underfunded, that many Americans can't even do simple mathematics, recite basic history, or understand elementary biology behind viruses and vaccines. Instead, they are forced and told to worship celebrities -- whatever plastic infused idiot is getting their 15 second of fame for the week.  

Cultural values are replaced by empty slogans and the pursuit of profit. Investment banks, fashion companies that run child-labour sweatshops, and media conglomerates that actively censor material on both sides of the political spectrum, these companies dare lecture the people on what they should or shouldn't say.  

Compassion is replaced by jealousy. Kindness by vengeance. Respect by hatred.  

And yet you remain surprised and shocked that some orange-faced jackass is the President, and is attempting a poor political coup? Please! This was coming ever since America decided to make greed the god to worship, and when it decided to put a price tag on ever facet of human life.  

I stress: there is no moral equivalence between the protests today and the BLM protests. But, if we are to understand that what we saw in the protests for racial equality and justice was so so much more than just one black man being murdered by a cop -- that it was actually an explosion of rage and frustration at a broken criminal justice system that has perpetually abused and exploited the African American community -- then, surely, we need to understand that what happened today in DC was so much more than just some narcissistic would-be authoritarian telling his follows to riot.  
 
If we fail to understand the historical economic and political context as to what just happened, then one need only look to the past to see that we will witness something similar happen again. Next time with more anger, rage, and organisation, and with much more devastating consequences.
